confined to particles where they normally reside. I am especially interested in collimated streams of particles, called jets, that are sometimes created in particle collisions. The particles in these jets interact with quark-gluon plasma, and when they are measured in a detector, their properties are modified when compared to collisions where no quark-gluon plasma is created. The details of these modifications carry information about the properties of the quark-gluon plasma.


Free time
======
I find an adequate amount of free time very important to balance the time spent on research. I like doing all kinds of sports. I have played football (for the Americans there, in this football the ball is actually kicked with your feet) in the fifth highest league stage in Finland, in addition to many different recreational leagues. I have also played volleyball at recreational league level. I used to be in a circus school in Jyväskylä, where I did juggling, floor acrobatics, aerial silks, and pair acrobatics. At times, I have also practiced martial arts (Han Moo Do and Taekwondo), tennis, floorball, running, swimming, biking, cross-country skiing, disc golf, slacklining, orienteering, and trampoline acrobatics.

I enjoy being in nature, doing camping and hiking. In Finland, I have done these especially in the Hossa National Park in the north, which has really beautiful forests. When stationed at CERN, I often did day hikes in the Jura or the Alps. In the United States, I have visited several state and national parks for day and overnight hikes, including Indiana Dunes, Starved Rock, Smoky Mountains, Zion, Bryce Canyon, Grand Canyon, and Virgin Falls.

I also really like playing board games. I own tens of games and have played hundreds of different ones. I really appreciate the problem-solving aspect in many heavier board games, where you need to make the best decisions within the available options. Even though heavy strategy games are my favorites, I enjoy a wide variety of games, and lighter social ones are great icebreakers for evenings with friends.
